-[Alison] Mmm!
-It's Dessert Week.
No, it's not yet.
Remember what Paul and Prue said.
Can't have Dessert Week
until you've finished your supper.
Exactly. Now finish that pea.
[Noel] Not sure I can manage it.
-[Alison] Go on.
-[sighs]
-Done.
-Now it's Dessert Week.
[both] Welcome to
The Great British Baking Show.
-Trifle?
-I can't manage trifle, I've had a pea.
It wasn't a petit pois.
It was a big garden pea.
You look like a pea.
[Noel] This time…
Ah! Need to have a scream.
[Noel] …Dessert Week…
-How's the meringue? Aah!
-[laughs]
[Noel] …sees the bakers
whip up a sweet treat…
Practically 100% sugar.
[Noel] …crack up…
-[laughter]
-[laughs] Come on now, kids.
[Noel] …over a bawdy British pudding…
Spotted dick is very nice. [laughs]
[Noel] …and try to do justice
to an Italian classic.
-It better work.
-Or I'll put a horse's head in their bed.
-[Noel] Who's…
-No signal manoeuvre, Gill.
[Noel] …going to deliver the baked goods…
The look absolutely exquisite.
[Noel] …and who's gonna buckle…
Man down, man down.
[Noel] …under the pressure?
[gasps] I forgot an ingredient.
It's like the fifth circle of hell.
I'm gonna cry.
[opening theme music playing]
-[classical music playing]
-[birds chirping]
I can't believe there are this few of us.
It is a little bit bonkers.
Back for another week. Here I am.
It's quite weird. We keep going,
"There's only six of us left."
[Georgie] It is empty, though.
-[Gill] Ridiculously empty.
-[Georgie sighs]
It's weird 'cause you don't know
what's gonna happen.
It is quite fierce competition.
Everyone is so good.
Last week, I got Star Baker.
It was a complete surprise.
I've already like exceeded
so every week is a bonus.
[Dylan] Last week was terrible.
A good eye-opener.
Now I'm this far, the pressure goes up
because I don't wanna mess up.
[Georgie] I love making desserts at home,
puddingy things, really soft.
I'll eat the whole bowl.
"Desserts" spelt backwards is "stressed".
But there'll be none of that today.
Welcome back to the tent, bakers.
It's so good to see you all.
This week, it's Dessert Week,
or if you're a little less posh like Paul,
it's Pudding Week. [laughs]
[laughter]
Now, the judges would love you
to make eight meringue nests.
When I first met Paul Hollywood,
he was asleep in a meringue nest.
I pulled him out of there,
reared him, clipped his wings,
put him in some stonewashed denim
and, er, yeah, we got on famously.
-[Alison] And here we are.
-Yeah.
[laughs]
Now your baked meringue
could be any style that you choose
but it must have at least two fillings
like a good jacket potato.
I probably wouldn't choose
beans or cheese.
-[laughs]
-You only have two hours, 15 minutes.
On your marks.
-Get set.
-Bake.
[Christiaan] Here we go again.
[Illiyin] Meringue can be quite
melt-in-your-mouth, and I'm excited.
If you're excited by it,
it's usually gonna be okay.
[Georgie] I practised so much.
My son has been eating meringues
like it's nobody's business. Loves them.
Meringue's one of my favourites.
Practically 100% sugar. [laughs]
It's Dessert Week, and for me,
that's the best week of the year.
We're asking the bakers
to make meringue nests,
which is piped meringue
so that you get a basket or a nest shape.
They can fill it with anything
but we need at least two fillings.
[Paul] Obviously, fillings can be anything
but it's critical to get those flavours
balancing beautifully.
I'm gonna make a lime gel.
Everything else is quite sweet
so that sharpness is really nice.
French meringue is the classic way
to make a meringue nest.
It's about getting the air into the egg.
You whip it up to a stiff peak
so it's beautiful and smooth.
I am adding my sugar
very slowly to my egg whites
so I don't deflate them
'cause it's all about the air today.
The perfect meringue nest is very stable.
It must absolutely hold their fillings.
You have to bake it low and slow
to get every bit of moisture
out of that meringue, then it'll be rigid.
Meringues can be temperamental.
I just hope they turn out okay
and don't go all cracky.
[Paul] It's getting into the latter stages
and they really need to show off, really.
Show to us what they can possibly do.
[birds chirping]
-[Paul] Illiyin, good morning.
-[Prue] Good morning.
We need to know
all about your meringue nests.
So these are my piña colada
meringue nests.
-Well done. Thank you.
-[Noel whistles]
[all laugh]
I hope that's what happens.
-Paul loves a piña colada.
-Okay. No pressure, no pressure.
-I'll take it back if it's terrible.
-Yeah.
[Alison] Illiyin's mocktail meringues
will have all the classic
piña colada flavours.
Pineapple, lime and a non-alcoholic rum,
along with coconut in both her fillings
and meringue nests.
How are you going to make
the meringue coconutty?
-Meringue has desiccated coconut in it.
-In it.
'Cause you get a nice crunch
in the meringue
and flavour comes through from that.
-Don't mess this one up.
-I'll try not to.
[laughs] Thank you very much.
-Thank you.
That's at stiff peaks so I'm gonna fold in
my rice powder and my cardamom.
[Noel] The bakers must be careful how much
flavouring they add to their meringue…
[Georgie] I've put almond extract in.
…as it can easily overwhelm the bake.
[Sumayah] Rice powder. It's normally used
in Thai cuisine to thicken soups
but the flavour's really nice.
[Christiaan] I am making
a rose water meringue.
You don't wanna add too much
because, very easily, it gets quite soapy.
A risky flavour, but I've done it at home
so why would it not work here?
[Alison] To contrast
the highly floral rose water,
Christiaan is opting
for walnut praline, cherry jam
and Chantilly cream
in his elaborate meringues.
Do you like meringue?
-Too sweet.
-Too sweet?
They sell big meringues sometimes,
don't they, in bakeries?
-Those massive ones.
-In the window.
-My kids always want them. I'm like…
-Is it? Do they love it?
-[laughs] Not today. Yeah.
-[laughs] Too much sugar.
-Aah!
-Literally. [laughs]
-How's the meringue? Aah!
-[laughs]
[Georgie] I'm piping the meringues now.
I'm not known for being very uniform.
One can try. [chuckles]
I make no promises.
[Alison] If the bakers are to build nests
robust enough to hold their fillings…
You don't want cracks.
Wanna make sure that it keeps its shape.
…a steady hand is critical.
[Sumayah] I'm nervous.
It's okay, I need to go slower.
[Noel] Any imperfections now could
cause cracks and weaknesses later.
Oh, my God. They're, like, slopping.
I don't understand why.
[Noel] Dylan's taking
a riskier approach with his bake.
[Dylan] I bake mine in a mould.
I've practised loads of times,
but every time, they crack.
Someone wise would probably
change the idea but I'm just gonna do it.
[Noel] If his plan succeeds,
Dylan's meringue nests
will take the form of coconut shells
filled with coconut bavarois
and topped with rum-soaked Génoise sponge.
After nearly heading home last week,
he's going all out to redeem himself.
Last week was a bit of a bad week for you,
-weren't it, babes?
-Yeah.
I feel Dessert Week,
Pudding Week, is your week.
I like my recipe.
-If my meringues come out hard on top…
-You're happy.
If they're not then I'm absolutely…
-I'm stuffed.
-You're critical.
-I get really upset.
-Do ya?
Food's like, I don't know, it's emotion
for me, do you know what I mean?
You take it very seriously.
When I was a kid, if I was having a burger
and it fell apart, I'd just cry.
-Really?
-And I rarely cry,
but if things are wrong with food,
I cried a lot.
-I cried when I was hungry. [laughs]
-Yeah. [laughs]
I'm still like that as an adult.
[both laughing]
Let's get these meringues in the oven.
[Dylan] I basically have to bake them
upside down to dry out.
[Christiaan] To dry out the meringue,
you bake it low.
If not, there's a really big chance
they might crack.
So they're going in for an hour
at 100 degrees.
I'm baking these at 120 for an hour.
[Illiyin] We're going 50 minutes at 140.
Not as low as people tend to cook them.
When I've practised at home,
I've cooked 'em at this temperature
so I'm not changing that.
[Alison] But Georgie's having a rethink.
I'm not happy with how my meringues look.
[inhales] It deflated a bit.
I'm gonna do another one.
Oh, it's just so frustrating.
-[Paul] Morning.
-[Georgie] Hello.
[Prue] Hello, Georgie.
-It's late. Why are you still…
-I got some in.
I may have overwhipped it
and it's kind of deflated.
I'm doing a second batch.
-You're doing spares.
-I'm doing spares.
-So I've been watching your videos.
-Right.
I've done it with my eyes closed
the last two weeks.
-So I dunno what's happened.
-Next time, open your eyes.
[laughs]
[Alison] With almond-flavoured
meringue nests
filled with orange curd, mascarpone,
amaretto cream and plum compôte,
Georgie's paying homage
to a family favourite.
Mine are based on my aunty's recipe.
It's called Aunty Meryl's marzipan plums
but there's no marzipan in there,
but you get that marzipan flavour
from the amaretto. So it's with a twist.
[Noel] Gill's also celebrating memories…
Peachy custard.
If you're looking for cutting-edge
modern cuisine, you're in the wrong place.
…of delicious summer stone fruits.
When I was little,
I'd go to my Great Aunty Amy's
and she had a marvellous
ice cream shop near her.
My favourite one was peach melba.
Just don't see it anywhere now.
A famous brand did a limited edition.
I was like, "Yes!"
Literally filling the trolley.
The freezer was full. [laughs]
[Alison] Gill's nests will be topped
with peach roses and fresh raspberries.
Inside, a raspberry coulis
and Chantilly cream
will be paired with a sweet crémeux
made from tinned peaches.
-[Noel] Tinned peaches.
-Tinned peaches.
-Can't beat a tinned peach.
-It's lovely.
If I had to describe Paul,
I'd say he's never had real fruit.
-He's only had--
-Tinned peaches or tinned fruit cocktail.
-He's pure tinned peaches.
-Yeah. [laughs]
I've got tinned lychees.
Taste like perfume.
They look like eyeballs.
[laughs]
-[birds chirping]
-[crow cawing]
Check this out.
I'll do the time call in a cool way.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
They're upside down, babes.
-All right, all right, leave it.
-[laughs]
-Oh.
-[Dylan] I am worried about the meringue.
I put in 15. As long as
it's one in two success rate, I'm good.
They look absolutely fine.
I don't think I need to put the others in.
[Noel] The judges are not only expecting
eight perfect nests…
[Georgie] Might work out.
Ah! Need to have a scream.
…they also want
plenty of flavoursome fillings…
So here we've got, like,
sour morello cherries.
…perfectly balanced
against the sweetness of the meringue.
[Illiyin] The pineapple curd,
I want this to be quite sharp.
You know Paul likes to do that thing
where he goes… like that? [laughs]
I've got some amaretto. [sniffs]
[laughing] Let's just down it.
I'm gonna take a sip
and I'm putting it in with the plum.
That's giving me my marzipan flavour.
So here's just some honey, tarragon,
pomegranate molasses and some cloves.
So I'm gonna cook
my apricot pieces in here.
I just get random ideas.
I just thought it would go nicely.
-[Alison] Hello, dear.
-[Sumayah] Hello.
Do you realise, Sumayah,
that you are the only person here
who's got two Star Bakers
and you're the youngest?
How good is that?
-Quickest to rise is the first to fall.
-[both laughing]
[Noel] Aiming to impress again,
Sumayah's packing in complex flavours.
A walnut praline along with
pomegranate cream and apricots
poached in tarragon and honey
will sit in meringue nests
flavoured with cardamom
and toasted rice powder.
This sounds interesting.
It sounds unusual.
You're doing a lot in this.
It's getting the balance of flavours.
I had to tweak a lot.
Have you practised it and timed it?
I've done it quite a lot of times, yeah.
I finish with quite some time to spare.
-Don't get cocky. [chuckles]
-Yeah. Something's gonna go wrong.
[birds chirping]
My beautiful bakers, just to let you know,
you've only got half an hour left.
-Very Brummie, wasn't it? [laughs]
-That went so Brummie.
[crew] They'll subtitle it.
Subtitle… [laughs]
You cheeky… He said they'll subtitle it.
-Er…
-[laughs]
So my meringues are now off and
they're just cooling in the residual heat.
Just wanna cool it down slowly.
A drastic temperature change
will cause the meringue to crack.
-[Noel] What's this?
-[Christiaan] Don't touch.
[Noel] Can't be a technical thing.
Wedging the oven door open with a spoon.
It's the secret trick to meringue.
You don't want them cracking
with a big temperature difference.
-[Noel] So you put a wooden spoon in?
-Yeah.
-Baking, it's a sham.
-[both laugh]
[Dylan] Giving those a few minutes
to cool down.
I'm making a prep station now.
Make sure all your elements are prepared,
then once it's go time, it's go time.
Fail to prepare, prepare to fail.
That's what my gran always said.
-[Alison] It's week seven now.
-[Gill] It is.
-Have you celebrated this milestone yet?
-No, not really.
Don't think you got a chance to.
So if you could celebrate in any way
whatsoever, what would you do?
-I'd be out at the pub.
-Ooh.
With my dog and my husband, in that order.
-[laughs]
-Love it. The dog comes first.
-Yeah.
-Love it.
[birds chirping]
Bakers, you've got 15 minutes left.
[Illiyin] I'm gonna take them out.
They look fine. That's good.
Not a single one's cracked.
-[Gill] Looking posh.
-[Christiaan] Thank you.
Mine have got some monumental cracks in.
-[Christiaan] Put the filling over it.
-Try and drizzle it down the cracks.
They've cracked
but there's toppings going on them.
They're all so cracked. [sighs]
Sometimes, when the oven's too hot,
it could happen.
I'm trying to get over the irritation.
I'm struggling.
This is the delicate bit
of just making holes in the top.
[Illiyin] Delicate work, this. [laughs]
I'm not a delicate woman.
[Dylan] They're delicate.
The first time, I broke most of them.
I broke it.
That's a write-off.
[Dylan] Yeah, so now I have 12.
[laughs] Yes!
Okay, and now I'm happy.
I need to paint these with chocolate
like bristles on a coconut.
[Illiyin] That's open at the side,
but whatever.
Oh, dear.
Start filling them.
No signal manoeuvre, Gill.
No signal manoeuvre.
-Bakers, you only have five minutes left.
-Is that all we've got left?
-You can do this.
-[Illiyin] I need to be faster.
Don't know where the time's gone today.
This is the peach crémeux.
[Sumayah] That's my walnut praline.
I have about eight different elements
in my meringue nests.
[Georgie] Plum compôte.
[Illiyin] Pineapple curd.
Should get a nice flavour bomb. [chuckles]
Dylan's look excellent.
[Dylan] Bit of coconut bavarois.
Tarragon, apricots. Quite unusual.
Look how cute these are.
Bakers, you have one minute left.
-[Illiyin] Oh, God.
-Anyone got a spare hand?
-[Christiaan] Need a hand?
-I'd be eternally grateful.
-Cake soaked in rum syrup.
-[Sumayah] Looking good.
[Illiyin] They're a mess.
Bakers, your time is up.
Yay!
-Thank you, chaps.
-[chuckles]
[Alison] Well done, bakers.
-It's like a proud parent moment.
-[smacks lips] Aw.
They look fabulous. You are a genius.
[Illiyin] That looks like arse.
Oh, gutted.
[sad whimsical music playing]
[classical music playing]
[Alison] The bakers' meringue nests
now face the judgement of Paul and Prue.
-Hi, Illiyin.
-Hello.
[classical music playing]
It's a shame about their overall look.
They could've been much, much neater
'cause they've cracked really poorly.
They are a coconut meringue
with a lime gel, a pineapple curd,
rum cream with rum-caramelised pineapples.
[Alison] Paul's going in for two bites.
[whispers] Two bites.
-[clears throat]
-[Prue] What's the matter?
The curd's really sharp.
It's delicious because it's that sharp.
It is like having a piña colada.
It's so good. I'm amazed you got
so much coconut flavour into the meringue.
I should've thought of that myself.
It's lovely.
[both] Thank you.
-Well done.
-Thanks.
[classical music playing]
I like the look of them.
You think they're nice?
[Prue] I love the look of them.
It looks so clean.
It's really red and white.
These are filled with a peach crémeux,
raspberry coulis,
macerated peaches,
mascarpone Chantilly cream.
These are the biggest raspberries
I've ever seen.
They're absolute dob for raspberries.
[Paul] Huge, yeah.
It's certainly punchy.
The peach bit is too strong.
The raspberry lifts it.
What's the custard or the crémeux?
It's a peach crémeux.
It doesn't feel real. It feels artificial.
Feels like a boiled sweet
rather than a fresh fruit.
-[Paul] Thanks.
-Thank you.
[bright classical music playing]
[Paul] I like the colours.
The meringue's
all over the place a little bit,
sort of slid over to the side.
That's actually more to do
with your piping than anything.
There is almond meringue, Chantilly cream,
orange curd and plum compôte.
The curd works really well with the plums.
-I like the almond extract.
-[Prue] In the meringue.
Comes through beautifully.
It's just the right level.
[Prue] Nice original flavours,
beautifully balanced.
-Thank you.
-Well done.
-[cheers silently]
-[whispers] Thank God.
[bright classical music playing]
They look absolutely exquisite.
And I'm so impressed with the way
you managed to get that piping.
[Paul] It is neat.
So I've got Swiss meringue nests
with a little bit of rose water.
Then walnut praline, a cherry jam
and a rose water and sour cream Chantilly.
For me, the rose and the cherry,
I don't really like the flavours together.
-Maybe 'cause the rose is a bit strong.
-Okay.
-Rose is always going to dominate.
-[Paul] Mmm.
[Prue] Unless you're really
very delicate with it.
-Thank you.
-Well done, darling.
[bright classical music playing]
-They look incredible.
-Thank you.
[Paul] It's like art nouveau.
They're absolutely exquisite. Well done.
So it's a toasted rice meringue nest,
honey tarragon apricots,
then a crème légère
with a tiny bit of pomegranate molasses.
[cutlery clanking]
It's more savoury than sweet.
It doesn't identify as anything.
It's trying to find a way
and it's lost its way a little bit.
[Prue] No doubt
there are lots of different flavours.
-I love it.
-Okay. [chuckles]
I love the fact it's not very sweet.
I think that toasted rice flavour
is fantastic.
-Well done, Sumayah.
-[Paul and Sumayah] Thank you.
[bright classical music playing]
They look spectacular.
That is really clever.
Does look like a coconut,
like an illusion.
-Take a bite. You can.
-Yeah, get involved, go on.
There's a coconut bavarois,
some passion fruit in there
and then cubes of rum-soaked Génoise.
You do get the coconut coming through.
The bavarois is nice.
That's got a beautiful texture to it.
You've got texture, flavour, look of it.
-You've done something quite unique.
-[Prue] Mmm.
Oh! Really, really?
-[claps]
-Yeah, you're right.
-[all laugh]
-Cheers, thank you.
-[Paul] Well done.
-Whoo!
[Dylan] Thank you so much.
-It's original and delicious.
-[Paul] Well done.
-Cheers.
-[Paul] Excellent.
That's mental. He's just like,
"Eh, there you go."
Yay! Well done.
It's good. Compared to last week,
it's nice to be back in a nice position.
Hopefully I maintain it.
[Sumayah] And they both liked
the look of it. It could be a lot worse.
At least Prue liked it.
[Gill] Paul was upset
about me using tinned peaches.
He's forgotten his roots,
with the tinned peach.
It's better than
a fresh peach any day. [laughs]
[dramatic classical music playing]
[Alison] The bakers were able to practise
their meringue nests
but could be in for a rude surprise
in the technical challenge.
Bakers, welcome back to the tent.
Time for your technical challenge.
Today, this one has been set for you
by the lovely Prue.
Prue, got any words of advice
for our lovely bakers?
There is a common pitfall
to this technique.
Don't fall into the trap.
-You gonna tell 'em what it is?
-No.
[laughter]
As ever, this challenge is judged blind,
so we'll have to ask these two to pop off.
Honestly, I don't know why
they turn up for this bit.
For your technical challenge,
Prue would love you to bake
a British classic, spotted dick.
Your spotted dick…
[laughter]
…should comprise of
a moist, steamed suet sponge
studded with currants
and accompanied
with a silky smooth crème anglaise.
You have two hours, 15 minutes
in order to get your dick ready.
[laughter]
[laughs] Come on now, kids.
It's a family show. [laughing]
On your marks.
-Get set.
-Bake.
[sighs]
I've never seen a spotted dick.
I've never eaten one.
[Sumayah] Everyone knows what it is,
but no one wants to try it.
Unless you're above the age of 50.
It's very British.
When I moved to the UK,
I'd never heard of steamed pudding.
My boyfriend said, "You need to try them."
So actually,
spotted dick is very nice. [laughs]
[birds chirping]
So, Prue, why have you
chosen spotted dick?
My main memory of steamed puddings
are actually school dinners.
We thought spotted dick was hilarious.
But I think, done well, it's delicious.
-What are you looking for?
-Perfectly steamed sponge.
A nice golden syrup
and smooth silky custard.
You mentioned not falling
into a very familiar trap.
When we've had steamed puddings before
the bakers tend not to steam them
for long enough.
So it's the timing.
Needs to steam for at least
an hour and a half
or it just won't be properly baked
in the middle.
Have a go.
[Paul] I'll cut a little wedge out here.
-[Prue] That is lovely and crumbly.
-It is.
And yet, it's got that substantial feel
that only a steamed pudding has.
And I think with the custard as well,
it's fantastic.
It's delicious.
-A Sunday roast sort of pudding.
-And then a good sleep.
You end up face flat down on the table.
[laughs]
[Gill] Scant as ever on the instructions.
"Make spotted dick."
[Illiyin] I'll add my sugar.
[Sumayah] Flour, cinnamon, baking powder.
Suet. I don't know you say it.
Suet is little granules of fat.
This is veggie suet.
It's what I use at home.
[Dylan] "Add milk to form a soft dough."
So this is, I assume, a soft dough.
[Sumayah] Probably should add
my currants in now.
[Noel] Feel like you would know
about spotted dick. No?
I know what it is. I've seen it.
It's something I would pass on.
-Is it?
-I don't like currants.
They just swell up and they're… ugh.
The texture is just not for me.
-You like it when they're small and dry?
-Yes, I like a shrivelled…
You don't like
when they get swollen and warm.
[Georgie] Yeah. [laughs]
"Spoon the mixture into the pudding basin,
then cover with paper and foil."
Foil on top.
Try and keep it watertight.
Where's my string gone?
Where's "string" in the instructions?
Just think, you'll figure it out.
[Dylan] Oh, to tie it up!
Tie it up like a package.
Well done, Dylan. Well done.
Yay. I figured it out. [laughs]
Why am I helping him? He's like the enemy.
[Dylan] I don't know how
you keep it tight.
I need a finger. This is what I have
a husband for. His only use.
[Illiyin] You wanna make sure
that it's secure
and that water's not getting in it.
-Christiaan.
-Hello.
-You about to tie me up?
-Oh, yeah.
You got your rope out.
-I was gonna string you along but…
-[laughter]
-How's it going?
-I'm trying to make a handle.
It's like you're doing fashion design.
Look at this.
I feel a bit like arts and crafts
at the moment.
-[Alison] A nice handbag, look at that.
-Yeah, exactly. [laughs]
Steam on the hob until ready.
Put the plate in the bottom and
it keeps it off the heat at the bottom.
You don't want the water
to actually touch the pudding.
You wanna keep it quite low.
[Dylan] Fill it up to the plate,
no higher.
I think that's enough. It's gotta be.
You want it to steam but not boil
and let out moisture into the spotted dick
'cause it'll be too wet.
I don't know what I'm doing.
[groans softly]
[Gill] This is what I do at home.
Top it up again afterwards.
I've gotta keep an eye
because my water level's quite high,
and I don't want it to go over the top.
I don't know what the common pitfall is.
I'm confused.
Guess the pitfall's
the time it takes to steam.
That's gonna take ages.
Take at least an hour, 100%.
You need to steam it
at least for an hour and a half.
It takes quite a long time
because it's a big pudding.
[gasps] I forgot an ingredient.
I forgot the sugar.
Oh, don't wanna overmix it now.
Just get it in.
[birds chirping]
Bakers, you are halfway through.
-Ah!
-[Sumayah] Okay, I'll just shove this in.
Oh, I just wasted so much time.
I wanna give it at least
an hour to steam, like, minimum.
It takes quite a long time.
I need to make a syrup. The golden syrup
you pour over the steamed pudding.
"For the syrup, make a caramel
with 50 grammes of the caster sugar
and three tablespoons of water."
[Illiyin] You don't want to stir this.
Resist the urge.
-You move it, it might crystallise.
-[Georgie] Please don't crystallise.
[Illiyin] See we're getting
crystallisation now.
Didn't stir it, just didn't like me.
Oh, it's all crystallised.
-[sighs, chuckles]
-So we'll try again.
That looks like golden syrup to me.
[Noel] Boy wonder.
[sighs] Bit of a genius, isn't he?
He is a bit of a tiny prodigy.
-Tiny little genius.
-You think he's the one you've gotta beat?
-He's the one that'll beat us.
-Really?
Do you think Paul loves Dylan?
Dylan, think Paul's got a crush on you?
I held his hand today.
[both laugh]
He was ready to drop that one in.
He was ready for that one.
[classical music playing]
-I made you a jelly.
-What did you use as a mould?
Paul's bra.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
-[cries]
-We're still here staring at sugar.
That looks a bit darker,
so that looks better.
I'm still not fully happy with it
but it is what it is.
They'll be like… [clicks tongue]
"This is not dark enough."
Making crème anglaise.
If I can't make custard,
I really am gonna cry.
You want to make sure
that you don't scramble your eggs.
Should be so smooth, silky, no lumps.
I'm annoyed now. I've gone wrong.
It will be fine if I get my lumps out.
[sighs]
[birds chirping]
Bakers… Why don't you guess?
How long you think you've got left?
Fifteen. Fifteen.
Fifteen. Yes.
It's like you've all got watches
-and that me and Alison are redundant.
-[laughs]
I'll leave it for another ten.
I hope mine is cooked.
If it's under,
it's definitely gonna be stodgy and raw.
You don't want to turn it out
and it just collapses onto the plate.
I'm gauging what everyone else is doing.
Just waiting.
[Illiyin] Oh.
-It's like a waiting game.
-[sighs]
Who's gonna be the first
to take theirs out?
-Someone be brave.
-It's not gonna be me.
[clucking]
[Alison] Bakers.
There's only ten minutes left!
-It's all right. We just got to do it.
-Gill's first.
I'm just watching Gill.
That looks beautiful.
[Gill] It looks done.
I feel like I have no choice now.
[Dylan] It has to come out now.
[tense music playing]
[Georgie] Smells quite nice actually.
I just hope to God it's cooked.
I feel like I'll drop it.
[tense music continues]
[Dylan] Please, don't be bad.
Yeah! Cooked.
[Christiaan] I don't think that's too bad.
I'm worried some water's got in mine.
It's quite moist.
Oh, it came out, thank God. It's come out!
[Sumayah] It's not coming out!
Bakers, you've got one minute left.
At least come out, please.
This is literally just disastrous.
-"Pour all the syrup over the pudding."
-[Georgie] So pleased.
-[Dylan] Yummy.
-[Christiaan] Should've been darker.
[Illiyin] Hopefully
this just melts down the sides.
Just… get it out.
It just seems quite stodgy.
And looking slightly raw.
Bakers, your time is up.
Mine is awful. It's like stodge.
Please come and bring your spotted dicks
and place them behind your photographs.
[Sumayah] It just didn't come out.
It's like raw.
-[Sumayah sniffles]
-[Illiyin] Babes, it's fine.
-Sumayah's getting upset.
-Crying over a spotted dick.
[all laughing]
[Gill] Can I just say,
never ever cry over dick. Ever.
[bright music playing]
Okay, let's welcome back our judges.
Come on in.
[Noel] Prue and Paul
are looking for light, moist,
perfectly steamed spotted dicks
covered in rich golden syrup
and accompanied by silky smooth custard.
Got an interesting array in front of us.
[Noel] As always,
they don't know whose is whose.
-[Paul] We'll start with this one.
-The sauce looks a little pale.
The caramel needed to be
a little bit darker.
-[Paul] Oh, scrambled egg. Nice.
-Scrambled egg. That is such a pity.
-It's a little heavy.
-It's a bit heavy and stodgy.
Nice flavour though.
-Moving on.
-[Prue] That's a better syrup.
[Paul] The sponge is quite soggy.
It's become glutinous.
That's really heavy and stodgy.
That's a shame.
Okay. The sauce.
Colour on this one again is okay.
Custard's not bad.
-Mmm, sponge is lovely.
-The sponge is nice.
Okay, moving on to this.
The pudding's got
a bit of lightness to it.
-Nice custard.
-[Paul] Mmm.
Mmm, tastes good too.
Yeah. That, I love that.
I think that's pleasant.
[Paul] Mmm, it is good.
Problems with sticking to the bowl.
[Prue] The outside is really soggy.
-You can feel how gluey that is.
-Mm-hmm.
-It's quite raw inside.
-It tastes floury.
[Paul] Mmm.
-[Paul] The syrup is far too pale.
-[Prue] Yeah.
It doesn't look like caramel at all.
-Just looks like sugar syrup.
-Exactly.
-It's nice custard.
-That looks nice and light.
It does.
But actually, I quite like the pudding.
[Alison] The judges will now rank
the spotted dicks from worst to best.
Okay, in sixth spot we have this one.
Whose is this?
-Sumayah, it's quite gluey.
-Me. Yeah, I knew it.
And in fifth place we have this one.
Who is this?
Illiyin. So it's too stodgy.
[Alison] Gill is in fourth place
and Christiaan comes third.
So in second spot we have…
this one. Whose is this? Georgie.
This wasn't too bad at all actually.
It was a nice sponge.
So, of course, in first place, Dylan.
Custard is silky smooth,
nice light sponge. Well done.
Thanks.
This is the best I've done.
Which feels good after last week.
I feel like this is a good comeback.
I feel good.
Not last! Not last.
Honest, I'd be laughed out at home
if I couldn't make a decent custard.
It went worse
than I could have even imagined.
No one has a meal and is like,
"Know what I could really do with now?
Spotted dick."
No one is gonna say that!
[owl hooting]
[gentle classical music playing]
-[Illiyin] Good luck!
-[Christiaan] Yeah, good luck.
And then there were six.
This is when it starts
getting competitive.
We had some really good bakes yesterday.
Dylan dominated the technical
and did extremely well in his signature.
-The handshake and won the technical.
-That's unusual.
He's the boy wonder.
He is not only incredibly imaginative
but his flavours are so good.
Another who did well yesterday
was Georgie.
Loved the flavours, loved the idea
and she was second in technical.
Going home, I think it's all the others.
Sumayah's meringue nest was very beautiful
but it lost its way in flavour.
-It was a lot.
-She threw everything at it.
-I liked them. They worked.
-[Alison] You did.
Illiyin's, as a piña colada goes,
that's amazing,
but the meringue nest started cracking
and she came fifth in technical.
What about Gill?
She used tinned peaches in the signature
but it was too artificial.
[Prue] It was very strong.
You can say the same about Christiaan
because it tasted terrible, like soap.
So is this anybody's game today?
Any one of the four at the bottom
do a bad showstopper, they're out.
-This is nerve-wracking.
-[Prue chuckles]
[birds chirping]
[suspenseful music playing]
Hello, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your showstopper.
The judges would like to see your take
on an Italian classic, tiramisu.
Do you know that tiramisu
is actually Italian for "pick me up"?
Makes sense
because every time I see a tiramisu,
I pick it up and slam it in my gob.
[Alison and Noel laughing]
Your tiramisu must have
the three classics:
coffee, mascarpone, lady's fingers.
But you can add any additional elements
and flavours that you like.
You have four hours and 30 minutes.
On your marks.
-Get set.
-Bake!
I was so excited to see tiramisu.
I was like, "They've done it for me!"
I used to travel to Italy a lot.
Every night I'd have tiramisu.
It's just like the best thing.
I hate coffee with a passion.
So this is awful.
It's like the fifth circle of hell.
[laughing]
[Paul] It's a showstopper time,
the bakers have to produce a tiramisu.
And it's a very classic Italian dessert.
It's basically mascarpone cream,
coffee and a sponge lady's fingers.
We're making lady fingers.
Trying to keep as much air in them
as you possibly can.
We're asking the bakers
to personalise this tiramisu,
but anything that they add
should really go well with it.
Obviously chocolate
and things like ginger and hazelnuts,
and things that naturally go with coffee.
[Christiaan] I'm also creating
a roasted pistachio mousse.
It brings a really nice and deep flavour.
Coffee will be a king in this.
We want to taste the coffee,
but we don't want something too strong
because it overwhelms the whole thing.
Coffee. Very strong.
But I like it like that.
Strong, black, like me. [laughing]
[Prue] Tiramisu, it's traditionally
a soft pudding in a bowl.
So we want them to do
something different. Elaborate.
[Paul] It's a showstopper.
I want highly decorated.
You can add chocolate curls
or shapes or shards.
We want to see tiramisu
taken to a whole new level
by our six amazing bakers.
-Morning! Tell us about your tiramisu.
-[Georgie] Hello.
I'm obviously half-Italian,
so it's gonna be
very, very, very classic recipe
written on a piece of paper from Italy
from, like, 80 years ago.
It's your family recipe.
It would be crazy not to use.
It was on some ripped paper
just scribbled on. I've gotta use it.
-Yeah.
-[Paul] That's great.
[Noel] Keeping the classic
sponge lady fingers and mascarpone cream,
Georgie's complementing
her 80-year-old recipe
with hazelnut praline,
and wrapping her bake
in a flamboyant chocolate collar.
Despite her Italian heritage,
she's not had much experience
baking tiramisu.
It's not usually me that makes them.
It's my aunty.
There's a hierarchy in my family.
But my father is the don.
I'm the eldest child.
Realistically, it should be me
making the tiramisu.
They'll hopefully let me
take that title over after Bake Off.
Or I'll put a horse's head in their bed.
[Alison] Also keeping his recipe classic…
-I don't wanna change it too much.
-…Dylan.
I don't wanna upset Italians.
But there are ways you can upgrade it.
For my mascarpone cream,
I'm adding cured egg yolks.
They're used a lot in Asia.
I cure them in one-to-one salt and sugar,
and they just have this really nice
sort of salty and rich taste.
[Alison] Aside from his cured egg
mascarpone cream,
Dylan's going with traditional flavours
and plans to present his tiramisu
in a handmade chocolate box.
The box, I'm making it look like concrete.
-Like a breeze block.
-Kind of.
I'm using coloured cocoa butter,
different shades of grey.
-Oh, okay.
-So it looks like a stone box.
-You know shades of grey.
-Fifty Shades.
-I don't know what you're talking about.
-[laughs]
[Christiaan] Cute little lady fingers,
that's me.
They're usually piped into fingers,
but I'm doing mine in a round disc
so it's easier to pop in.
My lady circles. [laughing]
[Noel] The judges have demanded the bakers
retain the key elements of tiramisu.
Fingers in. Fingers crossed.
[Noel] Lady's fingers, mascarpone…
The Marsala wine being added
to the mascarpone cream.
It's like a dessert liner.
…and coffee.
-I hate coffee with a passion.
-That's a good start.
-There's coffee in it.
-Just a little bit.
If we can taste it,
which I'm beginning to suspect we won't.
I hope you will. I've had to do what
I promised I'd never do the last 30 years,
and that's listen to my husband.
He's tasted this to try and make sure.
We could end 23 years of reasonably
happy marriage today with this.
-I feel for him.
-[laughter]
[Alison] Guided by husband Steve,
Gill's combining coconut and coffee.
Layers of espresso sponge will sit
on a coconut mascarpone mousse
in her charlotte russe-style bake.
-I like the size of your fingers.
-They are pretty big.
-Do they go on the bottom?
-Mine's a Charlotte. Round the side.
-[Noel] What's that?
-They go round the outside.
-Is that what it's called?
-Yeah.
Wonder how they came up with that.
Someone carrying a cake
saw fingers around the edge and went,
"Imagine if we put false fingers
around the cake."
Think the fingers were real at one point?
-I hope not.
-I hope so.
[both laughing]
[Noel] While Gill's wrapping
her tiramisu in lady's fingers,
Illiyin's will be caged
in a chocolate jewellery box.
It's basically sort of
like spun chocolate.
You can see through it,
but you just can't open it.
-Have you done that decoration before?
-Yes, I have.
-And it worked?
-I think so.
-[Alison] Yeah?
-[Paul] Right.
[Noel] After poor presentation
in the signature,
Illiyin's out to impress
with a spiral chocolate collar and lid.
She's putting her own spin on tiramisu
by including
a chocolate and almond biscuit base
and rich fruity layer.
I'm making my cherry layer
and they'll go in sugar
and a non-alcoholic amaretto.
And they will cook down
ready to be used later.
But I'm gonna stain my hands.
They'll look like I've been away
for the weekend murdering people.
[laughing]
[Alison] Whatever new ingredients
the bakers add…
This is a mousse
that's got coconut cream in it.
Try and get the coconut latte flavour.
…it's vital they complement the coffee
tiramisu's famous for.
[Georgie] And I'm adding hazelnuts.
Pushes the coffee flavour up a bit more.
Oh, didn't see you there. [laughing]
It's like when the teacher comes round
in an exam.
[Noel] Having fallen foul of flavouring
with his signature,
Christiaan is risking going floral again.
Are you using rose?
-[laughing]
-A little bit.
-Not today.
-No. [laughing]
No, it is…
No, I'm doing a layer
of roasted strawberries in the tiramisu.
And I'm actually adding, literally,
an eighth of a teaspoon of rose water.
-[laughing]
-[Alison] Oh, no.
-It's fine.
-You're not gonna taste it.
Honestly, you're not. [laughing]
[Alison] Styled after the 1980s
Italian design group Memphis Milano,
Christiaan's summery take on a tiramisu
will include Marsala wine,
mascarpone cream, and a pistachio mousse
to complement
his rose water-roasted strawberries.
-You're messing with the classics.
-It's risky. Paul doesn't like rose.
-[Noel] He bathes in rose water.
-That's what I thought.
He was crying once,
one of his tears rolled down his cheek,
and I caught it on my tongue
like a snowdrop,
and it tasted of rose water.
[laughing]
[Noel] Sumayah's also risking
pairing some powerful flavours.
So, right now, I'm just making
my coffee lemon curd. And--
Coffee and lemon curd?
Mm-hmm.
Has it got lots of lemon in it
or just a rind?
It's basically a normal lemon curd,
but I'm just adding some instant coffee.
[Prue] Okay.
Lemon and coffee are
two very, very punchy flavours.
[Alison] Mmm.
[Noel] Along with coffee lemon curd,
Sumayah's adding praline,
a chocolate crémeux,
and will wrap her tiramisu
in an ornate, delicate sponge collar.
I'm just doing a joconde
around the outside
that's gonna look like batik fabric.
-Oh, right.
-Nice.
-Then a chocolate lotus flower.
-Wow.
That sounds absolutely like you
and up your street.
-[Paul] I look forward to it.
-Yeah.
-Good luck. Sounds amazing.
-Thank you.
[Noel] Bakers, you are…
[ululating] halfway through!
-You do look like Tarzan.
-[laughing]
I am wearing a loincloth
if that's what you mean,
under these clothes. [laughing]
That is everything made, I think,
and then it is time to build.
[Christiaan] Soak the lady fingers
in coffee, then layer them.
This is something I struggle with,
gauging how much coffee to put in.
You don't want to add too much
to where it's soggy,
but you don't want it too dry.
-This is crucial. They've gotta taste it.
-[Gill] They've got to taste it.
How d'you know how much to put
when you don't like coffee?
No idea,
which is why I had to recruit Steve.
-So we can blame him.
This goes wrong,
it's 'cause of you, Steve.
-[laughing]
-It's 'cause of you.
Mascarpone cream. Just want to make sure
that all of the edges are covered.
[Georgie] Hazelnuts to add texture.
Strawberries in next.
[Sumayah] So that's my coffee lemon curd.
[Illiyin] Next layer!
My kids eat these.
I just blink and they're gone.
It's cute.
Unless they take the bit I need.
Ha. Then it's not very cute.
[Alison] If the bakers don't
layer up their tiramisu quickly…
And then the rest of my mascarpone.
The final layer of mousse going on.
…their showstoppers
won't have time to set.
So that can go in the freezer.
If it doesn't set,
it will literally just splurge.
[Noel] And could collapse when demoulded.
[Georgie] In there couple of hours.
[Gill] For as long as
I can give them to set.
[Noel] However, Dylan's not yet
assembling his tiramisu.
[Dylan] So the whole dessert is gonna be
encased in a tempered chocolate box.
[Noel] He's got a box to build.
[Dylan] So I've got my grey colours here.
Just pour it out.
These are the sides.
The big chocolate slabs are the sides.
These just need to set.
If you do really well today,
you get a Star Baker.
[Dylan] Yeah.
You'd have got the handshake,
the technical and the Star Baker.
It'd be a good clean run, wouldn't it?
[Noel] Think you can?
As long as it comes up good
and I make my box, I'm happy.
Just don't have any big disasters.
[laughs]
So, now we're moving on
to the chocolate decorations.
[Georgie] I'll have
a marbled effect chocolate collar.
It's weird. This side looks a mess,
but then you turn it over it's lovely.
[Christiaan] It's gonna be
a black and white collar.
Memphis Milano is the inspiration.
It's very '80s.
[Sumayah] I'll have a joconde
round the outside with a batik design.
Sumayah mentioned lemon coffee curd.
Lemon curd is quite tangy,
it's quite tart.
With coffee, that'll be interesting.
Now coating some lady fingers in chocolate
and putting some desiccated coconut on.
-Gill hates coffee.
-I know. Gotta get those levels perfect.
-She got her husband to taste it, so…
-That's true.
I'm hoping they will taste coffee.
Getting the balance is the challenge.
The vision is cage.
Illiyin's putting that cage around it.
It's just a question whether
she can do the decoration well enough.
[Paul] Yeah.
I'm about to put my box together.
So I need to cut these to size.
As long as nothing devastating
happens to them, I'm good.
[Paul] Dylan.
'Cause he's got this box.
I mean, I like the idea of Dylan.
I don't know if it'll hold.
That's my only issue,
how stable it's gonna be.
[Dylan] Oh, no. So annoying.
[sighs] I could redo it
by tempering chocolate.
It's such a long process.
I'm gonna have to cut the top off them.
This is such an arduous process.
[birds chirping]
Bakers, you have 30 minutes left.
-Just need to get the cake out now.
-[Sumayah] Oh, that's frozen!
Oh, my God, it's so cold,
it's burning my hands.
It's all right, that bit.
I only need it eight centimetres high.
So I only have that tiny bit there.
[Illiyin] I need to get this out.
If it's not set, it's a problem
because it will just all collapse.
Oh, I hate this part.
[Christiaan] That's all right.
[Illiyin] Still quite soft.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Georgie] Looks a little wet.
Probably too much coffee.
[Dylan] That's set.
So I need to put my tiramisu in there.
[Noel] Is this the chocolate box?
Can you stay away from it?
I just don't trust you.
-[clanging]
-You're telling me not to be clumsy.
-You're like Frank Spencer.
-[laughing]
-Who's Frank Spencer?
-[Alison] You're so young.
He doesn't know Frank Spencer.
We're so old.
-[Noel] I know.
-I told my parents you guys were 50.
-They were surprised.
-Er… can we just rewind?
I'm 49.
-Do not push my--
-Yes, but average 50.
-I'm still in my forties.
-But, no, you guys are 50.
Take your age and average it, it's 50.
-Hello! I'm not 50!
-We're a century old.
I just need to get the collar on.
It's so heavy. It's hard.
[Alison] All it means is
I've been in the queue
a little bit longer than you--
-A little?
-Doesn't mean my--
Well, you've been in the queue
2.5 times the amount than I have.
-He's literally…
-All right.
He hasn't even come in the shop yet.
Do you feel closer to death,
or do you not…
-I'm already dead, so…
-Do you feel closer to death?
No, but my body is not decaying.
After 27 your body starts decaying.
End of the day you could get hit by a bus.
You could die before me.
-That's morbid.
-[laughing]
[Gill] It will have the lady fingers
around the outside.
That's my joconde.
I'm just trimming off the overlap.
Uh-oh, that's way too much.
How long do we have left?
Bakers, you've got ten minutes left.
Ahh!
[Dylan] Oh, no. I need to be move quicker.
Cream at the bottom,
and on top, the layer of lady fingers.
-[Georgie] Let's have a look.
-[Christiaan] It looks very shiny.
It's pretty good.
Shine on it is quite good.
[Alison] That looks so good, Gill.
Is it going well?
Yeah, happy as I can be.
-Are you?
-It looks good.
It'll be like Noel.
Look at it, a perfect specimen.
[both laugh]
What are you two up to?
I do not trust you at all.
-[Noel] I'm not sure.
-[all laughing]
Fill in the gaps. Such a mess. Oh, well.
[Illiyin] Ah! Man down, man down.
Annoyingly, that's now fallen.
I just need to trim it all a bit more.
Then I need to attach
all these little pink half-moons
that are gonna be stuck
around the outside of the collar.
[Dylan] On top
I'll do the layer of cocoa powder.
That does not look nice.
It's just so messy.
Bakers, you've got one minute left.
[Illiyin] I'm having a panic.
I need to fix that side.
[Gill] I'm a frustrated
Blue Peter presenter at heart.
-[Christiaan] Like open-heart surgery.
-[Sumayah] The chocolate lotus flower.
[Gill] We've got a shine,
we've got some shapes.
-Bakers.
-Waa!
[Noel] Your time is up.
Please step away from your tiramisus.
-It's done.
-Looks amazing.
-[Dylan] Thanks.
-[Christiaan] Well done.
I kept thinking,
"When will he take it out the tin?"
-Then I realised that was actually…
-[all laughing]
[gentle classical music playing]
[Alison] The bakers' tiramisu showstoppers
now face the judgement of Paul and Prue.
Dylan, would you like to bring up
your showstopper?
[gentle classical music playing]
[Paul] It's a gorgeous box.
It's neat as a pin.
Really beautiful. I love the finish.
It looks more like stainless steel
or aluminium than concrete,
but it's fantastically clever.
So mine has got a salted cured egg yolks
in the mascarpone cream.
Espresso with amaretto.
-[Paul] Look at the layers.
-[Prue] Beautiful.
It's a really classic tiramisu.
Very nice strong coffee,
not at all too sweet.
You could eat a lot of that.
-I've never had cured eggs before.
-[Paul] Mmm.
-I do think they add something to it.
-Mmm.
-A little kick of salted caramel.
It is like a salted caramel inside.
It's such a beautiful flavour.
It's creamy and it feels luxurious.
Every element to it is beautifully made.
-Well done.
-[Paul] Thanks.
[gentle classical music playing]
It's very pretty.
The chocolate collar is just exceptional.
It is shiny.
And it's just beautifully done.
[Alison] That's a big tiramisu.
-[Prue] Wow.
-[Georgie] Yeah.
-[Alison] Gosh, look at that.
-[Prue] That is amazing, Georgie.
[Paul] Lovely layers in there.
So mine's a classic Italian tiramisu
with a hazelnut praline.
I love that. And it's so delicate.
You've created a very classic tiramisu
with a hazelnut praline.
-I'm a big fan.
-[Prue] You've cracked tiramisu.
I think tiramisu should change its recipe.
-[all laughing]
-It should be this.
It's my aunty's recipe,
so I can't take the credit.
-Yeah.
-Thank you.
Thank you.
[whispers] Well done.
[both cheering silently]
[gentle classical music playing]
I love the collar.
-It's beautifully executed.
-[Paul] It is effective.
It's just exquisite.
So let's see what it tastes like.
[Christiaan] It's got the mascarpone cream
with Marsala wine,
coffee, roasted strawberries,
and on top
we've got a roasted pistachio mousse.
It's really unusual
'cause you've got fruit with coffee,
but it's Marsala
that goes with the coffee.
When you do get a big mouthful of it
and I managed to get it in my mouth,
it is amazing.
It is very delicious.
I don't know how you get it all
in your mouth at once.
[Paul] It's like a gift.
-So you have to have a big mouth.
-Do you want some?
-Oh, yes please.
-[all laughing]
-Thank you, Christiaan.
-Thank you.
[gentle classical music playing]
-It looks great.
-[Prue] Very original.
[Paul] Love the colours,
it works very nicely.
[Illiyin] It has a chocolate biscuit base
and amaretto cream,
coffee-soaked sponge fingers,
amaretti-soaked cherries.
The flavours are fantastic.
The sponge is beautifully baked.
The coffee level is perfect.
Love the cherries in there,
that bit of tartness
that comes through from it.
-It's a little triumph.
-[Paul] Well done.
-Well done, Illiyin.
-Thank you.
[bright classical music playing]
Very elegant. You could almost see it
in a window of a beautiful French shop.
[Prue] Yeah.
It's a coffee sponge with a coconut cream,
then there's lady fingers
around the outside
with chocolate and desiccated coconut.
That's delicious.
I love the coconut with the cream.
It really works.
The sponge is lovely.
The coffee is wonderful.
That level of coffee, it's what
you'd expect when you have a tiramisu.
-Thank you, Steve.
-He's not up there, is he?
-[both laugh]
-I've not put him under the patio yet.
[all laughing]
[gentle classical music playing]
Well, your printed sponge
is beautifully done
and I love the pattern.
[Paul] The colours are amazing,
but this break here.
It's not very neat at all.
So it's a mascarpone mousse,
lady finger sponge, a coffee lemon curd.
The band of very, very strong
lemony coffee is a bit of a shock.
It's very sharp.
I don't necessarily
like the sharpness with the coffee.
[Prue] In a way, if it had have been
thinner layers of it, it would be better.
I think it's work in progress.
Needs more polish. Thanks very much.
[Prue] Well done, Sumayah.
I'm disappointed but not surprised,
to be honest.
I see their criticism and I get it.
I've accepted it.
And I'm bitter. [laughs]
[Illiyin] It'd be incredible
to get through to next week.
If I didn't, I'm still very proud
of the achievement.
I felt so bad about last week,
so now I feel a bit more invigorated.
Like, "Oh, yeah, I'm back."
I'm going to have to admit
that Steve's not quite as wrong
as he usually is, aren't I?
Marriage saved.
Twenty-three years and still going strong.
[birds chirping]
[gentle classical music playing]
Well, that was
a pretty amazing showstopper.
So who's in line for Star Baker today?
The same two that came into it.
-Dylan.
-Georgie and Dylan.
-Flavour, they were fantastic.
-[Alison] Really?
[Paul] Georgie's collar was amazing.
I love the hazelnut praline.
That worked beautifully.
What about Dylan? Again, he was clever.
[Paul] That was a great cake,
a good work of art.
The cured egg yolk was ingenious.
Going home, it's a tricky one
because I think Sumayah is in trouble.
-Has Gill done enough to stay?
-[Alison] Mm-hmm.
[Paul] Has Illiyin done enough?
Such a shame
'cause they're all such good bakers.
We will be sending good bakers home
from now on.
[suspenseful music playing]
Well done, bakers.
Now I've got the great job
of announcing this week's Star Baker.
It's quite an interesting week
because this week's Star Baker
got a handshake
and won the technical. [laughs]
-It's Dylan.
-[all cheering]
[Sumayah] Well done.
Now as you know, every single week
someone does sadly have to leave the tent.
So the person leaving the tent today is…
Sumayah.
Sorry, babes.
-Well done. Did so well.
-Thanks. Yeah.
I feel like it wasn't one specific event
that let me down.
It was just kind of like
a series of mistakes here and there.
-[Prue] You're so talented.
-[Sumayah] Thank you.
I'm really sorry to see Sumayah go home.
I mean, she's so talented
and she's so artistic.
Her flavours are very bold
and imaginative,
and mostly she pulls them off.
But I think this week she had a problem.
I've learnt to be more confident in myself
and my ideas.
-[Georgie] Oh, darl.
-Ah.
[Sumayah] You learn a lot from everyone
and I feel like I'm gonna take
a piece of everyone with me.
-[Paul] Well done.
-[Dylan] Cheers.
Did a decent job there, buddy.
Last week I was like,
"I'm coming back and I'll be Star Baker."
Now I've actually done it,
it's like, "That was pretty cool."
[Prue] Fantastic.
He's had a handshake,
he won the technical,
he did really well today
with that showstopper.
He's certainly one to watch.
[Noel] This is a tiny gang now, innit?
[sighing] Still here.
Who'd've thought after Coffee Week,
through to the quarterfinal.
How's that happened?
I didn't realise it was quarterfinal.
So I'm a quarterfinalist.
[squeals] I'm really excited.
Pretty happy, really overwhelmed.
A lot of work to do.
[laughs]
[closing theme music playing]